TELCODOCS-2045 - Telco core RDS 4.18 docs (#88622)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/telco-core-about-the-telco-core-cluster-use-model.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * scalability_and_performance/telco_core_ref_design_specs/telco-core-rds.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="telco-core-about-the-telco-core-cluster-use-model_{context}"]
= About the telco core cluster use model

The telco core cluster use model is designed for clusters that run on commodity hardware.

> Telco core clusters support large scale telco applications including control plane functions like signaling, aggregation, session border controller (SBC); and centralized data plane functions such as 5G user plane functions (UPF).

Reviewer: Per ISG: [Do not use _like_ to mean _such as_](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage#l).
```suggestion
Telco core clusters support large scale telco applications including control plane functions such as signaling, aggregation, and session border controller (SBC); and centralized data plane functions such as 5G user plane functions (UPF).
```

Telco core cluster functions require scalability, complex networking support, resilient software-defined storage, and support performance requirements that are less stringent and constrained than far-edge RAN deployments.

.Telco core RDS cluster service-based architecture and networking topology
image::openshift-5g-core-cluster-architecture-networking.png[5G core cluster showing a service-based architecture with overlaid networking topology]

Networking requirements for telco core functions vary widely across a range of networking features and performance points.
IPv6 is a requirement and dual-stack is common.

> Some functions need maximum throughput and transaction rate and require support for user-plane DPDK networking while others make use of more typical cloud-native patterns and can rely on OVN-Kubernetes, kernel networking and load balancing.

Reviewer: Would a comma here help to break up the noun string.

```suggestion
Some functions need maximum throughput and transaction rate, and require support for user-plane DPDK networking. Other functions make use of more typical cloud-native patterns and can rely on OVN-Kubernetes, kernel networking and load balancing.
```

The telco core cluster use model is designed for clusters that run on commodity hardware.
Telco core clusters support large scale telco applications including control plane functions such as signaling, aggregation, and session border controller (SBC); and centralized data plane functions such as 5G user plane functions (UPF).
Telco core cluster functions require scalability, complex networking support, resilient software-defined storage, and support performance requirements that are less stringent and constrained than far-edge RAN deployments.

.Telco core RDS cluster service-based architecture and networking topology
image::openshift-5g-core-cluster-architecture-networking.png[5G core cluster showing a service-based architecture with overlaid networking topology]

Networking requirements for telco core functions vary widely across a range of networking features and performance points.
IPv6 is a requirement and dual-stack is common.
Some functions need maximum throughput and transaction rate and require support for user-plane DPDK networking.
Other functions make use of more typical cloud-native patterns and can rely on OVN-Kubernetes, kernel networking, and load balancing.

> Telco core clusters are configured as standard with three control plane and one or more worker nodes configured with the stock (non-RT) kernel.

Reviewer 2: iirc requirement is 2 and more worker nodes cause in case of less then 2 worker nodes extra tweaks are required
